site/content/docs/user/rootless.md, before:

---
title: "Rootless"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "user"
    identifier: "rootless"
    weight: 3
---
Starting with kind 0.11.0, [Rootless Docker](https://docs.docker.com/go/rootless/) and [Rootless Podman](https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/master/docs/tutorials/rootless_tutorial.md) can be used as the node provider of kind.

## Provider requirements
- Docker: 20.10 or later
- Podman: 3.0 or later

## Host requirements
The host needs to be running with cgroup v2.

cgroup v2 is enabled by default on Fedora.
On other distros, cgroup v2 can be typically enabled by adding `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1"` to `/etc/default/grub` and
running `sudo update-grub`.

Also, depending on the host configuration, the following steps might be needed:

- Create `/etc/systemd/system/user@.service.d/delegate.conf` with the following content, and then run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`:
```ini
[Service]
Delegate=yes
```

- Create `/etc/modules-load.d/iptables.conf` with the following content:
```
ip6_tables
ip6table_nat
ip_tables
iptable_nat
```

## Restrictions

The restrictions of Rootless Docker apply to kind clusters as well.

e.g.
- OverlayFS cannot be used unless the host is using kernel >= 5.11, or Ubuntu/Debian kernel
- Cannot mount block storage
- Cannot mount NFS

## Creating a kind cluster with Rootless Docker

To create a kind cluster with Rootless Docker, just run:
```console
$ export DOCKER_HOST=unix://${XDG_RUNTIME_DIR}/docker.sock
$ kind create cluster
```

## Creating a kind cluster with Rootless Podman

To create a kind cluster with Rootless Podman, just run:
```console
$ KIND_EXPERIMENTAL_PROVIDER=podman kind create cluster
```

## Tips
- To enable OOM watching, allow `dmesg` by running `sysctl -w kernel.dmesg_restrict=0`.

Commit message:

clarify the impact of Delegate=true when using rootless
Signed-off-by: Bob <gzy@ruilisi.com>

site/content/docs/user/rootless.md, after:

---
title: "Rootless"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "user"
    identifier: "rootless"
    weight: 3
---
Starting with kind 0.11.0, [Rootless Docker](https://docs.docker.com/go/rootless/) and [Rootless Podman](https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/master/docs/tutorials/rootless_tutorial.md) can be used as the node provider of kind.

## Provider requirements
- Docker: 20.10 or later
- Podman: 3.0 or later

## Host requirements
The host needs to be running with cgroup v2.

cgroup v2 is enabled by default on Fedora.
On other distros, cgroup v2 can be typically enabled by adding `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1"` to `/etc/default/grub` and
running `sudo update-grub`.

Also, depending on the host configuration, the following steps might be needed:

- Create `/etc/systemd/system/user@.service.d/delegate.conf` with the following content, and then run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`:

  ```ini
  [Service]
  Delegate=yes
  ```

  (This is not enabled by default because ["the runtime impact of
  [delegating the "cpu" controller] is still too
  high"](https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/devel@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/ZMKLS7SHMRJLJ57NZCYPBAQ3UOYULV65/).
  Beware that changing this configuration may affect system
  performance.)

- Create `/etc/modules-load.d/iptables.conf` with the following content:

  ```
  ip6_tables
  ip6table_nat
  ip_tables
  iptable_nat
  ```

## Restrictions

The restrictions of Rootless Docker apply to kind clusters as well.

e.g.
- OverlayFS cannot be used unless the host is using kernel >= 5.11, or Ubuntu/Debian kernel
- Cannot mount block storage
- Cannot mount NFS

## Creating a kind cluster with Rootless Docker

To create a kind cluster with Rootless Docker, just run:
```console
$ export DOCKER_HOST=unix://${XDG_RUNTIME_DIR}/docker.sock
$ kind create cluster
```

## Creating a kind cluster with Rootless Podman

To create a kind cluster with Rootless Podman, just run:
```console
$ KIND_EXPERIMENTAL_PROVIDER=podman kind create cluster
```

## Tips
- To enable OOM watching, allow `dmesg` by running `sysctl -w kernel.dmesg_restrict=0`.
