site/content/docs/contributing/development.md, before:

---
title: "Development"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "contributing"
    identifier: "development"
    weight: 3
toc: true
description: |-
  🚧  This is a work-in-progress  🚧

  This page is intended to provide contributors with an introduction to developing the kind project. 
---

## Overview

KIND provides various utilities for development wrapped in `make`.

Most scripts require more or less only `make` + `bash` on the host, and generally
stick to POSIX utilities. Some scripts use `docker` e.g. for image building or
to use docker images containing special tools.

This guide will introduce you to important make targets and their usage.

## Building

### Building `kind`

Invoke `make build` and `bin/kind` will contain the freshly build `kind` binary
upon a successful build.

Like other targets, this target automatically manages the correct [`.go-version`][go-version] and doesn't require that you install any tooling (just `make` / `bash`). We accomplish this using a copy of [gimme] in `hack/third_party/gimme`.

### Building The Base Image

> **NOTE**: Most development should not require changes to the base image, however if your changes do, here's how to build and test it.

To build the "base image" for development use the `make quick` command in `images/base` directory: `make -C images/base quick`

By default, the base image will be tagged as `kindest/base:$(date +v%Y%m%d)-$(git describe --always --dirty)` format.
If you want to change this, you can set `TAG` environment variable.

`TAG=v0.1.0 make -C images/base quick`

For "production" base images one of the maintainers will run `make -C images/base push` which cross-compiles for all architectures and pushes to the registry.

You generally don't need to cross build during development, and currently the cross
build *must* be pushed instead of loaded locally, due to limitations in `docker buildx` (TODO: link to upstream issue).

To test out your changes take the image you built with `make quick` and use it
as the `--base-image` flag when running `kind build node-image` / building node images. You can then create a cluster with this node image (`kind create cluster --image=kindest/node:latest`)

For "Production" base image updates one of the maintainers will bump `DefaultBaseImage` in `pkg/build/nodeimage/defaults.go` to point to the newly pushed image.

### Building Node Images

See: ["building images"](/docs/user/quick-start/#building-images) in the user [quick start].

## Updating Generated Code

You can regenerate checked-in generated sources with `make generate`.
KIND does not use much generated code, but it does use a little.
Namely kind uses [`deepcopy-gen`] to generate `DeepCopy` methods for API types.

There is also a `make update` target meant to cover all automated code generation
+ formatting (`gofmt`).

## Testing

- Run `make test` to run all tests (unit + integration).
- Run `make unit` to run only unit tests.
- Run `make integration` to run only integration tests.

Like other targets, these targets automatically manage the correct [`.go-version`][go-version] and doesn't require that you install any tooling (just `make` / `bash`).

### E2E Testing

🚧 More here coming soon ... 🚧

TLDR: `hack/ci/e2e.sh` will run e2e tests against your local Kubernetes checkout.

Depending on your changes, you may want to e2e tests.

In the future we plan to have e2e smoke tests that are cheaper / don't require
building Kubernetes.

## Linting

You can run all of our lints at once with `make verify`.

Lints include:
- checking that generated code is up to date
  - you can run just this one with `hack/make-rules/verify/generated.sh`
- [golangci-lint] with a custom config (`hack/tools/.golangci.yml`) to lint Go sources
  - you can run just this one with `make lint`
  - This linter is essentially an optimized combination of _many_ Go linters
- [shellcheck] to lint our shell scripts (invoked via docker so you don't need to install it)
  - you can run just this one with `make shellcheck`

## Documentation

Our docs are built with [hugo] just like [kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io).
We provide a makefile for development that uses hugo in docker so you don't need
to install anything further, just [install docker](#install-docker).

Markdown content is under `site/content/` with a structure mirroring this site.

Static files are under `site/static` (e.g. images are under `site/static/images/`).

For simple content changes you can also just edit the markdown sources and send a
pull request. A build preview will be created by netlify which you can browse by
clicking the "details" link next to the `deploy/netlify` status at the bottom of
your pull request on GitHub.

These are also predictable as `https://deploy-preview-$PR_NUMBER--k8s-kind.netlify.app/`, just replace `$PR_NUMBER` with the number of your Pull Request.

For more involved site / documentation development, you can run `make -C site serve` from the kind repo to run a local instance of the documentation, browsable at [http://localhost:1313](http://localhost:1313). As mentioned previously, do this you'll need to [install docker](#install-docker).

This site has a custom hugo theme under `site/layouts` & `site/assets`. It's
mostly relatively simple but it has a few extra features:
- The theme layout takes a `description` parameter in page [front matter]
  - This renders the blockquote you see just below the page title, on this page with the text `This page is intended to provide contributors with an introduction to developing the kind project.`
- We have a few useful but simple custom shortcodes

### Shortcodes

[Shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/) are a hugo feature, the kind docs use the following custom shortcodes:

1. `absURL` -- When you need an absolute URL e.g. for `kubectl apply -f $URL`, this
shortcode converts an input URL to absolute. Usage: `{{</* absURL "some/URL" */>}}`

1. `securitygoose` -- This is a special shortcode for fun security notices. It wraps
inner markdown content. Usage: `{{</* securitygoose */>}} Notice markdown content here {{</*/ securitygoose */>}}`

1. `codeFromFile` -- Creates a nice codeblock with a copy button from a file. Usage: `{{</* codeFromFile file="static/examples/config-with-mounts.yaml" lang="yaml" */>}}`

1. `codeFromInline` -- Creates a nice codeblock with a copy button from an inline code snippet. Usage: `{{</* codeFromInline lang="go" */>}} func main() {{</*/ codeFromInline */>}}`

1. `readFile` -- is used to inline file contents. Usage: `{{%/* readFile "static/examples/ingress/contour/patch.json" */%}}`


## CI

The KIND project runs in / on Kubernetes' Custom CI, "[prow]" (prow.k8s.io).
This is both true for CI in the KIND repo, and in the Kubernetes repo where kind
is used to test Kubernetes.

It's important to note that we run larger, slower Kubernetes e2e tests in the kind
repo to mimic what we run in the Kubernetes repo. This is because Kubernetes tests
with kind at HEAD to have the latest fixes for running bleeding edge Kubernetes.
We ensure that the tests continue to work in the kind repo before merging any code changes.

We also have some limited usage experiments with [GitHub Actions], currently
only for testing `podman` support in kind.

### Configuration

Our repo's prow configuration is at https://git.k8s.io/test-infra/config/jobs/kubernetes-sigs/kind

GitHub actions are configured in `.github/workflows` in the kind repo.

[gimme]: https://github.com/travis-ci/gimme
[shellcheck]: https://shellcheck.net
[golangci-lint]: https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint
[go-version]: https://sigs.k8s.io/kind/.go-version
[quick start]: /docs/user/quick-start/
[hugo]: https://gohugo.io
[prow]: https://git.k8s.io/test-infra/
[GitHub Actions]: https://github.com/features/actions
[front matter]: https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/

Commit message:

update to latest hugo, obtain hugo using go instead of docker
Signed-off-by: Bob <gzy@ruilisi.com>

site/content/docs/contributing/development.md, after:

---
title: "Development"
menu:
  main:
    parent: "contributing"
    identifier: "development"
    weight: 3
toc: true
description: |-
  🚧  This is a work-in-progress  🚧

  This page is intended to provide contributors with an introduction to developing the kind project. 
---

## Overview

KIND provides various utilities for development wrapped in `make`.

Most scripts require more or less only `make` + `bash` on the host, and generally
stick to POSIX utilities. Some scripts use `docker` e.g. for image building or
to use docker images containing special tools.

This guide will introduce you to important make targets and their usage.

## Building

### Building `kind`

Invoke `make build` and `bin/kind` will contain the freshly build `kind` binary
upon a successful build.

Like other targets, this target automatically manages the correct [`.go-version`][go-version] and doesn't require that you install any tooling (just `make` / `bash`). We accomplish this using a copy of [gimme] in `hack/third_party/gimme`.

### Building The Base Image

> **NOTE**: Most development should not require changes to the base image, however if your changes do, here's how to build and test it.

To build the "base image" for development use the `make quick` command in `images/base` directory: `make -C images/base quick`

By default, the base image will be tagged as `kindest/base:$(date +v%Y%m%d)-$(git describe --always --dirty)` format.
If you want to change this, you can set `TAG` environment variable.

`TAG=v0.1.0 make -C images/base quick`

For "production" base images one of the maintainers will run `make -C images/base push` which cross-compiles for all architectures and pushes to the registry.

You generally don't need to cross build during development, and currently the cross
build *must* be pushed instead of loaded locally, due to limitations in `docker buildx` (TODO: link to upstream issue).

To test out your changes take the image you built with `make quick` and use it
as the `--base-image` flag when running `kind build node-image` / building node images. You can then create a cluster with this node image (`kind create cluster --image=kindest/node:latest`)

For "Production" base image updates one of the maintainers will bump `DefaultBaseImage` in `pkg/build/nodeimage/defaults.go` to point to the newly pushed image.

### Building Node Images

See: ["building images"](/docs/user/quick-start/#building-images) in the user [quick start].

## Updating Generated Code

You can regenerate checked-in generated sources with `make generate`.
KIND does not use much generated code, but it does use a little.
Namely kind uses [`deepcopy-gen`] to generate `DeepCopy` methods for API types.

There is also a `make update` target meant to cover all automated code generation
+ formatting (`gofmt`).

## Testing

- Run `make test` to run all tests (unit + integration).
- Run `make unit` to run only unit tests.
- Run `make integration` to run only integration tests.

Like other targets, these targets automatically manage the correct [`.go-version`][go-version] and doesn't require that you install any tooling (just `make` / `bash`).

### E2E Testing

🚧 More here coming soon ... 🚧

TLDR: `hack/ci/e2e.sh` will run e2e tests against your local Kubernetes checkout.

Depending on your changes, you may want to e2e tests.

In the future we plan to have e2e smoke tests that are cheaper / don't require
building Kubernetes.

## Linting

You can run all of our lints at once with `make verify`.

Lints include:
- checking that generated code is up to date
  - you can run just this one with `hack/make-rules/verify/generated.sh`
- [golangci-lint] with a custom config (`hack/tools/.golangci.yml`) to lint Go sources
  - you can run just this one with `make lint`
  - This linter is essentially an optimized combination of _many_ Go linters
- [shellcheck] to lint our shell scripts (invoked via docker so you don't need to install it)
  - you can run just this one with `make shellcheck`

## Documentation

Our docs are built with [hugo] just like [kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io).

We provide a Makefile for development that automatically manages a go toolchain
and uses that to build and run hugo. You only need `make`, `bash`,
and `curl` or `wget` installed.

Markdown content is under `site/content/` with a structure mirroring this site.

Static files are under `site/static` (e.g. images are under `site/static/images/`).

For simple content changes you can also just edit the markdown sources and send a
pull request. A build preview will be created by netlify which you can browse by
clicking the "details" link next to the `deploy/netlify` status at the bottom of
your pull request on GitHub.

These are also predictable as `https://deploy-preview-$PR_NUMBER--k8s-kind.netlify.app/`, just replace `$PR_NUMBER` with the number of your Pull Request.

For more involved site / documentation development, you can run `make -C site serve` from the kind repo to run a local instance of the documentation, browsable at [http://localhost:1313](http://localhost:1313).

This site has a custom hugo theme under `site/layouts` & `site/assets`. It's
mostly relatively simple but it has a few extra features:
- The theme layout takes a `description` parameter in page [front matter]
  - This renders the blockquote you see just below the page title, on this page with the text `This page is intended to provide contributors with an introduction to developing the kind project.`
- We have a few useful but simple custom shortcodes

### Shortcodes

[Shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/) are a hugo feature, the kind docs use the following custom shortcodes:

1. `absURL` -- When you need an absolute URL e.g. for `kubectl apply -f $URL`, this
shortcode converts an input URL to absolute. Usage: `{{</* absURL "some/URL" */>}}`

1. `securitygoose` -- This is a special shortcode for fun security notices. It wraps
inner markdown content. Usage: `{{</* securitygoose */>}} Notice markdown content here {{</*/ securitygoose */>}}`

1. `codeFromFile` -- Creates a nice codeblock with a copy button from a file. Usage: `{{</* codeFromFile file="static/examples/config-with-mounts.yaml" lang="yaml" */>}}`

1. `codeFromInline` -- Creates a nice codeblock with a copy button from an inline code snippet. Usage: `{{</* codeFromInline lang="go" */>}} func main() {{</*/ codeFromInline */>}}`

1. `readFile` -- is used to inline file contents. Usage: `{{%/* readFile "static/examples/ingress/contour/patch.json" */%}}`


## CI

The KIND project runs in / on Kubernetes' Custom CI, "[prow]" (prow.k8s.io).
This is both true for CI in the KIND repo, and in the Kubernetes repo where kind
is used to test Kubernetes.

It's important to note that we run larger, slower Kubernetes e2e tests in the kind
repo to mimic what we run in the Kubernetes repo. This is because Kubernetes tests
with kind at HEAD to have the latest fixes for running bleeding edge Kubernetes.
We ensure that the tests continue to work in the kind repo before merging any code changes.

We also have some limited usage experiments with [GitHub Actions], currently
only for testing `podman` support in kind.

### Configuration

Our repo's prow configuration is at https://git.k8s.io/test-infra/config/jobs/kubernetes-sigs/kind

GitHub actions are configured in `.github/workflows` in the kind repo.

[gimme]: https://github.com/travis-ci/gimme
[shellcheck]: https://shellcheck.net
[golangci-lint]: https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint
[go-version]: https://sigs.k8s.io/kind/.go-version
[quick start]: /docs/user/quick-start/
[hugo]: https://gohugo.io
[prow]: https://git.k8s.io/test-infra/
[GitHub Actions]: https://github.com/features/actions
[front matter]: https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/
